# University Study Space Booking App Progress Report

The following document highlights our current progress in the ongoing development of the University Study Space Booking Application. Although the functionality of the software is not complete, we believe we are on the right track and will meet the deadline with plenty of time to spare. 

As you can see, upon first entry into the website you are able to see that we have designed a fully navigable HTML website. Our system has been carefully designed with simplicity in mind so that the user is able to access the main functionalities of the website clearly and easily. We laid out the HTML pages in such a way that it mostly conforms to the unofficial 3 click rule; thus allowing for easier navigation for the user. The website is also fully functional (website displays appropriatly) on a mobile device through the use of bootstrap. 

Secondly, since you can access the website on any device that has connection to the internet, it's evident that we host the project on a public server. The  backbone for our spring project has been fully configured and we are now ready to begin programming the main functionality (making and viewing bookings) of the website in the backend. We came through many obstacles in setting up this server, and had to constantly back track and try different methods (experimented with heroku & oracle) as we were never satisfied with the end result. In the end we have followed the lecturer's tutorial and our server is now fully configured and functional. 

The MySQL database that will be used for our system has also been fully designed and implemented on our server. Test data has been inserted and is to be used in testing if we are able to fetch data from the database. In order to allow us to access data with MySQL, we have had to connect the Spring application to the database and implement Spring Data JPA to allow successful connections to be made to the database. This involved creating all of the @Entity models for each database entity, creating respositories for each entity and finally creating new controllers within our Spring application.

Looking at the program from the front end perspective, it may seem that not much progress has been made; however as highlighted in this document, the team has been working hard in getting the back end fully configured and implemented so that the foundations of the system are in place to allow further development.